# Declaring Models

Tigris follows the JSON schema
[specification](https://json-schema.org/specification.html).

Every schema has three required keywords which are expressed as JSON keys:

- **title**: This keyword states the name of the collection.
- **description**: This keyword states the purpose of the collection.
- **properties**: This keyword states the fields that make up the document
  stored in the collection.

## Specification

Using these keywords the schema specification of the collection is as follows:

```shell
{
  "title": string,
  "description": string,
  "properties": {
    "field": {
      "type": integer|number|string|boolean|array|object,
      "format": int32|float|byte|uuid|date-time,
      "autoGenerate": boolean
      "description": string
    },
  },
  "primary_key": ["field"]
}
```

## Defining the properties

As shown in the schema above there are three fields that make up the user
document. These fields are defined as part of the properties.

The fields must all have the following keywords expressed as JSON keys:

- **type**: This keyword states the data type
- **description**: This keyword describes the purpose of the field

For certain data types, the fields can optionally have **autoGenerate** JSON key
which specifies that the values for the field are automatically generated by
Tigris.

The array and object data types have additional items that must be specified.
This is described in the section below.

## Example Schema

Using the above specification, to model a collection `users` that has `id`, `name`, `balance` field and the `id` field
is set as auto generated.

```json
{
  "title": "users",
  "description": "Collection of documents with details of users",
  "properties": {
    "id": {
      "description": "A unique identifier for the user",
      "type": "integer",
      "autoGenerate": true
    },
    "name": {
      "description": "Name of the user",
      "type": "string",
      "maxLength": 128
    },
    "balance": {
      "description": "User account balance",
      "type": "number"
    }
  },
  "primary_key": ["id"]
}
```

## Collection Names

The name of the collection is reflecting in the title of the schema and used by Tigris server as-is.

## Field Names

The field names are the keys inside the properties objects. There is no conversion performed by default.
